h1. Welcome to the hhlc.eish!

This program is tailored to the needs of the HHLC (HAAGA-HELIA Linux Club). However, if found useful for any other situation, feel free to use, modify and redistribute. If so, please make sure that the HHLC logo and name are removed.

h1. Project Status

The project is still under heavy development and is lacking most of its features. Not recommended for any use besides development.

h2. Releases

At the moment we officially have two releases numbered 0.1 and 0.2, but they are no less buggy than the working tree.  Really, we mean it; we only created them for our internal organization of the project.  *Always download the working tree* until we have a stable release.

h1. Required Gems

* "faker":http://faker.rubyforge.org/
* "Icalendar":http://icalendar.rubyforge.org/
* "Populator":http://populator.rubyforge.org/
* "recaptcha":http://www.loonsoft.com/recaptcha/
* "RedCloth":http://redcloth.org/
* "will_paginate":http://wiki.github.com/mislav/will_paginate
* "CodeRay":http://coderay.rubychan.de/
* "Xapit":https://github.com/ryanb/xapit/ (if you need the search function)

h1. Plugins Used

* "MetaTags":http://github.com/kpumuk/meta-tags/
* "paperclip":http://thoughtbot.com/projects/paperclip
* "Xapit Sync":http://github.com/ryanb/xapit-sync

*MetaTags* is an SEO plugin by Dmytro Shteflyuk which makes it easier to set the page title and meta tags.

*Paperclip* provides easy file attachment management for ActiveRecord.

*Xapit Sync* extends Xapit to provide automatic syncing of the index.

The plugins are included as git submodules (See *Initial Setup*) and are all published under the MIT license.

NB. paperclip requires you to have "ImageMagick":http://www.imagemagick.org installed on your system.

h1. Javascript

* "jQuery Cookie plugin":http://plugins.jquery.com/project/cookie
* "jQuery":http://jquery.com/
* "jQueryUI":http://jqueryui.com/
* "jQuery Easing":http://gsgd.co.uk/sandbox/jquery/easing/
* "Fancybox":http://fancy.klade.lv/
* "markItUp!":http://markitup.jaysalvat.com/
* "Password Strength Plugin":http://www.mypocket-technologies.com (modified)

The *jQuery Cookie plugin* was created by Klaus Hartl, and it is dual licensed under the "MIT":http://www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php and "GPL":http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html licenses.

The *jQuery* and *jQuery UI* libraries are dual licensed under both "MIT":http://www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php and "GPL":http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html licenses.

Fancybox is the work of Janis Skarnelis, and is licensed under the "MIT":http://www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php license.  Fancybox depends on the "BSD":http://www.opensource.org/licenses/bsd-license.php licensed *jQuery Easing* plugin by George McGinley Smith.

The *markItUp!* by "Jay Salvat":http://www.jaysalvat.com/ is dual licensed under both "MIT":http://www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php and "GPL":http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html licenses.

The *Password Strength Plugin* is authored by Darren Mason, based on the plugin by "Firas Kassem":http://phiras.wordpress.com/2007/04/08/password-strength-meter-a-jquery-plugin/.  It is "GPL":http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html licensed.  We have made some small modifications to plugin.

h1. Initial Setup

* Clone the git repository to a local directory, and clone the bundle-fu plugin.  To do this, execute the following four commands in a terminal.

<pre>
	git clone git://github.com/jcxplorer/hhlc.git

	cd hhlc

	git submodule init

	git submodule update
</pre>

* Create the config/database.yml

E.g.
<pre>
development:
    adapter: sqlite3
    database: db/development.sqlite3
    pool: 5
    timeout: 5000
</pre>

* Create new keys.yml and settings.rb files based on the samples provided (config/keys.yml.sample and config/initializers/settings.rb.sample) with your own settings and keys

* Run 'rake setup' in the local directory

* Run 'rake db:populate' to add test data to the database (optional)

h1. Search

Search support is currently experimental.

Search is provided through the "Xapian":http://www.xapian.org/ Open Source Search Engine Library and the "Xapit":http://github.com/ryanb/xapit/ Rails gem.  In order for the Search to work you MUST have xapian-core and xapian-bindings (only the Ruby bindings are required) installed.

For more information on installing Xapian, see the "Xapian install guide":http://www.xapian.org/docs/install.html.

At the moment reindexing must be performed manually, for example by a cron job, using the following command:

<pre>
rake xapit:index
</pre>

However, this requires that the application be restarted for it to read the new database.  The upstream developer of the Xapit gem is working on improving this.

In order to enable search you must uncomment the line for Xapit in environment.rb and change SEARCH_ENABLED to true in the settings.rb initializer.

h1. Copyright

Copyright 2008 ‒ 2009 João Carlos Cardoso and Matias Korhonen.

The above copyright notice applies to all files of this program, unless stated otherwise in the file itself or in the section "Exceptions" below. 

h2. Exceptions

* Icons found under the "public/images/tango" directory are part of the "Tango Icon Library":http://tango.freedesktop.org/Tango_Icon_Library and have been released into the Public Domain.
* Icons found under the "public/images/seahorse" directory are part of "Seahorse":http://projects.gnome.org/seahorse/ and are licensed under GPLv2.

h1. Bug Tracker

Found a bug? Perfect. Let us know at our "bug tracker":http://hhlc.lighthouseapp.com.

h1. License

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program.  If not, see &lt; "http://www.gnu.org/licenses/":http://www.gnu.org/licenses/ &gt;
